docs/developer-guide/development.md, before:

# Development Guide

This guide is for developers who want to contribute to Stimm or extend it with custom providers and features.

## Development Environment

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+ with uv
- Node.js 18+ (for frontend development)
- Docker and Docker Compose (for running supporting services)

### Setting Up

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/stimm/stimm.git
cd stimm
uv sync --group dev --group docs
```

2. Start supporting services:

```bash
docker compose up -d postgres qdrant traefik livekit redis sip
```

3. Set up environment variables (copy `.env.example` files as described in [Configuration](../user-guide/configuration.md)).

4. Run the backend locally:

```bash
uv run python -m src.main
```

5. Run the frontend locally (in another terminal):

```bash
cd src/front
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Project Structure

Refer to [Components](../developer-guide/components.md) for a detailed breakdown of each directory.

## Adding a New AI Provider

Stimm is designed to be easily extended with new AI providers (LLM, TTS, STT). Each provider follows a common interface.

### LLM Provider

1. Create a new Python file under `src/services/llm/providers/`, e.g., `my_llm.py`.

2. Implement the `BaseLLMProvider` abstract class (defined in `src/services/llm/llm.py`).

3. Register the provider in `src/services/llm/llm.py` by adding it to the `LLM_PROVIDERS` dictionary.

4. Add any required environment variables (API keys, URLs) to `.env.example`.

5. Update the frontend provider list if needed (see `src/front/lib/provider‑constants.ts`).

### TTS/STT Provider

Similar steps apply for TTS and STT providers. Look at existing implementations (e.g., `src/services/tts/providers/deepgram/`) for reference.

## Adding a New RAG Provider

1. Create a new Python file under `src/services/rag/providers/`, e.g., `my_rag.py`.

2. Implement the `BaseRagProvider` abstract class (defined in `src/services/rag/rag_models.py`).

3. Register the provider in `src/services/rag/rag_service.py`.

4. Define configuration fields in `src/services/rag/config_models.py` (if needed).

5. Update the frontend RAG provider list (`src/front/components/rag/types.ts`).

## Database Migrations

When you modify the database models (`src/database/models.py`), you must create a new Alembic migration.

```bash
# Generate a new migration
uv run alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Description of changes"

# Apply the migration
uv run alembic upgrade head
```

## Testing

Run the test suite to ensure your changes don't break existing functionality.

```bash
# Unit tests
uv run pytest tests/unit/ -v

# Integration tests (requires provider API keys)
uv run pytest tests/integration/ -v
```

See [Testing Guide](testing.md) for more details.

## Code Style

Stimm uses **black** for formatting, **isort** for import sorting, and **flake8** for linting.

```bash
# Format and lint
uv run black src/
uv run isort src/
uv run flake8 src/
```

You can also use the pre‑commit hooks (see `.pre‑commit‑config.yaml`).

## Submitting Changes

1. Create a feature branch.
2. Write tests for your changes.
3. Ensure all tests pass and the code is formatted.
4. Submit a pull request on GitHub.

## Getting Help

If you have questions or need guidance, feel free to open an issue.

Commit message:

docs: Add linting and formatting checks to CI pipeline
Adds backend linting (black, isort, flake8) and frontend linting (ESLint, Prettier) checks to the CI pipeline. Updates documentation to reflect these changes and adds corresponding badges to README. Ensures code quality standards are enforced during continuous integration.

docs/developer-guide/development.md, after:

# Development Guide

This guide is for developers who want to contribute to Stimm or extend it with custom providers and features.

## Development Environment

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+ with uv
- Node.js 18+ (for frontend development)
- Docker and Docker Compose (for running supporting services)

### Setting Up

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/stimm/stimm.git
cd stimm
uv sync --group dev --group docs
```

2. Start supporting services:

```bash
docker compose up -d postgres qdrant traefik livekit redis sip
```

3. Set up environment variables (copy `.env.example` files as described in [Configuration](../user-guide/configuration.md)).

4. Run the backend locally:

```bash
uv run python -m src.main
```

5. Run the frontend locally (in another terminal):

```bash
cd src/front
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Project Structure

Refer to [Components](../developer-guide/components.md) for a detailed breakdown of each directory.

## Adding a New AI Provider

Stimm is designed to be easily extended with new AI providers (LLM, TTS, STT). Each provider follows a common interface.

### LLM Provider

1. Create a new Python file under `src/services/llm/providers/`, e.g., `my_llm.py`.

2. Implement the `BaseLLMProvider` abstract class (defined in `src/services/llm/llm.py`).

3. Register the provider in `src/services/llm/llm.py` by adding it to the `LLM_PROVIDERS` dictionary.

4. Add any required environment variables (API keys, URLs) to `.env.example`.

5. Update the frontend provider list if needed (see `src/front/lib/provider‑constants.ts`).

### TTS/STT Provider

Similar steps apply for TTS and STT providers. Look at existing implementations (e.g., `src/services/tts/providers/deepgram/`) for reference.

## Adding a New RAG Provider

1. Create a new Python file under `src/services/rag/providers/`, e.g., `my_rag.py`.

2. Implement the `BaseRagProvider` abstract class (defined in `src/services/rag/rag_models.py`).

3. Register the provider in `src/services/rag/rag_service.py`.

4. Define configuration fields in `src/services/rag/config_models.py` (if needed).

5. Update the frontend RAG provider list (`src/front/components/rag/types.ts`).

## Database Migrations

When you modify the database models (`src/database/models.py`), you must create a new Alembic migration.

```bash
# Generate a new migration
uv run alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Description of changes"

# Apply the migration
uv run alembic upgrade head
```

## Testing

Run the test suite to ensure your changes don't break existing functionality.

```bash
# Unit tests
uv run pytest tests/unit/ -v

# Integration tests (requires provider API keys)
uv run pytest tests/integration/ -v
```

See [Testing Guide](testing.md) for more details.

## Code Style

### Backend (Python)

Stimm uses **black** for formatting, **isort** for import sorting, and **flake8** for linting.

```bash
# Format and lint
uv run black src/
uv run isort src/
uv run flake8 src/
```

### Frontend (TypeScript/React)

The frontend uses **ESLint** for linting and **Prettier** for formatting, with Prettier integrated into ESLint.

```bash
# Lint and format
cd src/front
npm run lint
npx prettier --check .

# Auto-fix formatting
npx prettier --write .
```

You can also use the pre‑commit hooks (see `.pre‑commit‑config.yaml`).

## Submitting Changes

1. Create a feature branch.
2. Write tests for your changes.
3. Ensure all tests pass and the code is formatted.
4. Submit a pull request on GitHub.

## Getting Help

If you have questions or need guidance, feel free to open an issue.
